Binlog: add a document for real time replication with BR/Dumpling (#6238)
pingcap/docs: incremental-replication-between-clusters.md

---
title: Replicate Incremental Data between TiDB Clusters in Real Time
summary: Learns how to replicate incremental data from one TiDB cluster to another cluster in real time
---

# Replicate Incremental Data between TiDB Clusters in Real Time

This document describes how to configure a TiDB cluster and its secondary MySQL or TiDB cluster, and how to replicate the incremental data from the primary cluster to the secondary cluster in real time.

If you need to configure a running TiDB cluster and its secondary cluster for replicating incremental data in real time, use the [Backup & Restore (BR)](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md), [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) or [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md).

## Implementation principles

Each transaction written to TiDB is allocated a unique commit timestamp (commit TS). Through this TS, you can get the global consistency status of a TiDB cluster.

> The cluster data is exported from a globally consistent point in time by using BR or Dumpling. Then, TiDB Binlog is used to connect to this globally consistent point in time to start replicating the incremental data. That is, the replication process is divided into two processes: full replication and incremental replication.

Author: ```suggestion
The cluster data is exported using BR or Dumpling at a globally consistent point in time. Then starting from this point in time, TiDB Binlog is used to replicate incremental data. That is, the replication process is divided into two stages: full replication and incremental replication.
```

### Step 1: enable TiDB Binlog

Make sure that TiDB Binlog has been deployed and enabled in cluster A.

### Step 2: full export the cluster data

1. Export the data in cluster A (with global consistency ensured) to the specified path by using any of the following tools:

    - Use [BR for full backup](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#back-up-all-the-cluster-data)

    - Use [Dumpling to import full data](/dumpling-overview.md)

2. Obtain a globally consistent timestamp `COMMIT_TS`:

    - Use the BR `validate` command to obtain the backup timestamp. For example:

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        COMMIT_TS=`br validate decode --field="end-version" -s local:///home/tidb/backupdata | tail -n1`
        ```

    - Or check the Dumpling metadata and obtain Pos (`COMMIT_TS`).

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        cat metadata
        ```

        ```shell
        Started dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:19
        SHOW MASTER STATUS:
                Log: tidb-binlog
                Pos: 420747102018863124

        Finished dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:20
        ```

3. Export the data in cluster A to cluster B.

> ### Step 3: replicate incremental data

Author: ```suggestion
### Step 3. Replicate incremental data
```

---

> title: Incremental data replication between TiDB clusters in real time

Author: ```suggestion
title: Replicate Incremental Data between TiDB Clusters in Real Time
```

summary: Learns how to replicate incremental data from one TiDB cluster to another cluster in real time
---

> # Incremental data replication between TiDB clusters in real time

Author: ```suggestion
# Replicate Incremental Data between TiDB Clusters in Real Time
```

This document describes how to configure a TiDB cluster and its downstream MySQL or downstream TiDB, and then replicate the incremental data from an upstream cluster to a downstream cluster in real time .

> ## Usage scenarios
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: > 

Do we need to remove this subtitle, unlike the Doc-cn PR?

Reviewer: Yes, we do. See https://github.com/pingcap/docs-cn/pull/7040.

Author: Thanks!

If you need to configure a running TiDB cluster and its downstream cluster for the incremental data replication in real time, use the [Backup & Restore (BR)](/br/backup-and-restore-tool.md), [Dumpling](/dumpling-overview.md) or [TiDB Binlog](/tidb-binlog/tidb-binlog-overview.md).

## Implementation principles

Each transaction written to TiDB is specified with a unique commit timestamp (commit TS). The global consistency status of a TiDB cluster is provided by a TS.

> You need to use BR or Dumpling to export the cluster data at a specific point in time when the cluster is in global consistency status. Then, you need to use TiDB Binlog to start incremental replication right after the global consistent time. That is, the replication process is divided into two processes: full replication and incremental replication.

Author: ```suggestion
By using BR or Dumpling, the cluster data is exported at a specific point in time when the cluster is in the global consistency status. Then, TiDB Binlog is used to start replicating incremental data right after the global consistent time. That is, the replication process is divided into two processes: full replication and incremental replication.
```

> You need to use BR or Dumpling to export the cluster data at a specific point in time when the cluster is in global consistency status. Then, you need to use TiDB Binlog to start incremental replication right after the global consistent time. That is, the replication process is divided into two processes: full replication and incremental replication.

Author: Thanks! and please take a look at the revised translation!

> You need to use BR or Dumpling to export the cluster data at a specific point in time when the cluster is in global consistency status. Then, you need to use TiDB Binlog to start incremental replication right after the global consistent time. That is, the replication process is divided into two processes: full replication and incremental replication.

Reviewer: This is not an accurate translation. Please translate the passage **LITERALLY**!

1. Perform a full backup restoration and get a commit TS of the data backup.
2. Perform incremental replication. Make sure that the start time of incremental replication is the commit TS of the data backup.

> **Note:**
>
> The commit TS obtained after exporting the backup data is a closed interval. The initial-commit-ts obtained after starting the replication process using TiDB Binlog is an open interval.

## Replication process

Suppose that the existing cluster A works properly. First, you need to create a new cluster B as the downstream cluster of cluster A and then replicate the incremental data in cluster A to cluster B in real time as the following steps:

> ### Step 1: enable TiDB Binlog

Reviewer: Gobal comment: 参照其他标题带 Step 的文档，首字母为大写。ref: https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/production-deployment-using-tiup
```suggestion
### Step 1: Enable TiDB Binlog
```

Reviewer: 可以的

> Make sure that TiDB Binlog(/tidb-binlog/deploy-tidb-binlog.md) has been deployed and enabled in cluster A.

Author: ```suggestion
Make sure that TiDB Binlog has been deployed and enabled in cluster A.
```

> ### Step 2: full export the cluster data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Export all cluster data
```

> 1. Export data in cluster A global consistently to the specified path by using any of the following tools:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Export the data in cluster A (with global consistency ensured) to the specified path by using any of the following tools:
```

    - Use [BR for full backup](/br/use-br-command-line-tool.md#back-up-all-the-cluster-data)

    - Use [Dumpling to import full data](/dumpling-overview.md)

> 2. Obtain a global consistant timestamp `COMMIT_TS`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Obtain a globally consistent timestamp `COMMIT_TS`:
```

>     - Use the BR `validate` command to obtain the backup timestamp as following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Use the BR `validate` command to obtain the backup timestamp. For example:
```

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        COMMIT_TS=`br validate decode --field="end-version" -s local:///home/tidb/backupdata | tail -n1`
        ```

    - Or check the Dumpling metadata and obtain Pos (`COMMIT_TS`).

        {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

        ```shell
        cat metadata
        ```

        ```shell
        Started dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:19
        SHOW MASTER STATUS:
                Log: tidb-binlog
                Pos: 420747102018863124

        Finished dump at: 2020-11-10 10:40:20
        ```

3. Export the data in cluster A to cluster B.

### Step 3: replicate incremental data

> 1. Modify the `drainer.toml` configuration file of TiDB Binlog and add the following configurations to specify the location that `COMMIT_TS` starts the replication to cluster B.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Modify the `drainer.toml` configuration file of TiDB Binlog by adding the following configuration to specify the `COMMIT_TS` from which TiDB Binlog starts replicating data to cluster B.
```
